[Docs] Translate infer.md (#1121)
open-mmlab/mmengine: docs/zh_cn/design/infer_translation.md

# Inference interface

> When developing based on MMEngine, we usually define a configuration file for a specific algorithm, use the configuration file to build an [executor](./runner.md), and execute the training and testing processes, and save the trained weights. When performing inference based on the trained model, the following steps are usually required:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When developing based on MMEngine, we usually define a configuration file for a specific algorithm, use the configuration file to build an [runner](./runner.md), and execute the training and testing processes, and save the trained weights. When performing inference based on the trained model, the following steps are usually required:
```

1. Building the model based on the configuration file
2. Loading the model weights
3. Setting up the data preprocessing pipeline
4. Performing forward inference on the model
5. Visualizing the inference results
6. Outputting the inference results

For this type of standard inference workflow, MMEngine provides a unified inference interface and recommends that users develop inference code based on this interface specification.

## Example Usage

### Defining an Inference Engine

Implement a custom inference engine based on  `BaseInferencer` 

```python
from mmengine.infer import BaseInferencer

class CustomInferencer(BaseInferencer)
    ...
```

> For specific details, please refer to the [Development Specification](#Development Specification of Inference Interface) below.

Reviewer: Please make sure the link is available

> ### Building an Inference Engine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Building an Inferencer
```

Reviewer: Please replace all `inference engine` with `Inferencer` in this document

> **Building an Inference Engine Based on Configuration File Path**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Building an Inference Engine Based on Configuration File**
```

```python
cfg = 'path/to/config.py'
weight = 'path/to/weight.pth'

inferencer = CustomInferencer(model=cfg, weight=weight)
```

**Building an Inferencer Based on Configuration Class Instance.**

```python
from mmengine import Config

cfg = Config.fromfile('path/to/config.py')
weight = 'path/to/weight.pth'

inferencer = CustomInferencer(model=cfg, weight=weight)
```

> **Building an Inferencer based on model name defined in 'model - index**. Take the [ATSS detector in MMDetection](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdetection/blob/31c84958f54287a8be2b99cbf87a6dcf12e57753/configs/atss/metafile.yml#L22) as an example, the model name is `atss_r50_fpn_1x_coco`, since the weight path is already defined in the model-index, the weight parameter does not need to be configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Building an Inferencer based on model name defined in model-index**. Take the [ATSS detector in MMDetection](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdetection/blob/31c84958f54287a8be2b99cbf87a6dcf12e57753/configs/atss/metafile.yml#L22) as an example, the model name is `atss_r50_fpn_1x_coco`. Since the path of weight has already been defined in the model-index, we don't need to configure the weight arguments anymore.
```

> **Building an Inference Engine Based on Model Name Defined in 'model - index**，Taking the [ATSS detector in MMDetection](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdetection/blob/31c84958f54287a8be2b99cbf87a6dcf12e57753/configs/atss/metafile.yml#L22) as an example , the model name is `atss_r50_fpn_1x_coco`, since the weight path is already defined in the model-index, the weight parameter does not need to be configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Building an Inferencer based on model name defined in 'model - index**. Take the [ATSS detector in MMDetection](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdetection/blob/31c84958f54287a8be2b99cbf87a6dcf12e57753/configs/atss/metafile.yml#L22) as an example, the model name is `atss_r50_fpn_1x_coco`, since the weight path is already defined in the model-index, the weight parameter does not need to be configured.
```

Please refine

```python
inferencer = CustomInferencer(model='atss_r50_fpn_1x_coco')
```

### Performing Inference

> **Infer a Single Image**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Inferring on a single image**
```

> **Inferring on a Single Image**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Infer a single image**
```

```python
# Input as Image Path
img = 'path/to/img.jpg'
result = inferencer(img)

# Input as Loaded Image (Type: np.ndarray)
img = cv2.imread('path/to/img.jpg')
result = inferencer(img)

# Input as url
img = 'https://xxx.com/img.jpg'
result = inferencer(img)
```

**Inferring on Multiple Images**

```python
img_dir = 'path/to/directory'
result = inferencer(img_dir)
```

```{note}
OpenMMLab requires the `inferencer(img)` to output a `dict` containing two fields: `visualization: list` and `predictions: list`, representing the visualization results and prediction results, respectively.
```

## Development Specification of Inference Interface

> When inferencer performing inference, the following steps are typically executed：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When performing inference, the following steps are typically executed：
```

1. preprocess：Input data preprocessing, including data reading, data preprocessing, data format conversion, and so on.

> 2. forward: Execute model`.forwward`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. forward: Execute `model.forwward`
```

> 1. preprocess：Input data preprocessing, including data reading, data preprocessing, data format conversion, and so on, is typically carried out when performing inference.
> 2. forward: Model Forward Inference.
> 3. visualize：Visualization of Predicted Results.
> 4. postprocess：Post-processing of predicted results, including result format conversion, exporting predicted results, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. preprocess：Input data preprocessing, including data reading, data preprocessing, data format conversion, and so on.
2. forward: Execute model`.forwward`
3. visualize：Visualization of predicted results.
4. postprocess：Post-processing of predicted results, including result format conversion, exporting predicted results, and so on.
```

> To optimize the user experience of the inferencer, we aim to eliminate the need for users to configure parameters for each step when performing inference. In other words, we want users to be able to simply configure parameters for the `__call__` interface without having to be aware of the aforementioned processes, in order to complete inference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To optimize the user experience of the inferencer, we aim to eliminate the need for users to configure parameters for each step when performing inference. In other words, we want users to be able to simply configure parameters for the `__call__` interface without having to be aware of the aforementioned processes.
```

> The `__call__` interface will execute the aforementioned steps in order, but it is not aware of which step the parameters provided by the user should be distributed to. Therefore, when developing a `CustomInferencer`, developers need to define four class attributes: `preprocess_kwargs`, `forward_kwargs`, `visualize_kwargs`, and `postprocess_kwargs`. Each attribute is a set of strings (`Set[str]`) used to specify which step the parameters in the `__call__` interface correspond to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `__call__` interface will execute the aforementioned steps in order, but it is not aware of which step the parameters provided by the user should be distributed to. Therefore, when developing a `CustomInferencer`, developers need to define four class attributes: `preprocess_kwargs`, `forward_kwargs`, `visualize_kwargs`, and `postprocess_kwargs`. Each attribute is a set of strings that are used to specify which step the parameters in the `__call__` interface correspond to:
```

In addition, we need to register the `CustomInferencer` to a custom registry or the MMEngine's registry.

```python
from mmseg.registry import INFERENCERS
# It can also be registered to the registry of MMEngine.
# from mmengine.registry import INFERENCERS

@INFERENCERS.register_module()
class CustomInferencer(BaseInferencer):
    ...
```

```{note}
In OpenMMLab's algorithm repositories, the Inferencer must be registered to the downstream repository's registry instead of the root registry of MMEngine to avoid naming conflicts.
```

> **Core Interface Explanation**:

Reviewer: It could be better to make it as a level 2 heading. Please also refine the Chinese doc

Author: Excuse me, is the English translation also named 'infer.md'? Will it conflict with Chinese doc?

### `__init__()`

> The `BaseInferencer.__init__` method has already implemented the logic for building an inferencer as shown in the [sample code](#Building an Inference Engine) , so in most cases there is no need to override the `__init__` method. However, if there is a need to implement custom logic for loading configuration files, weight initialization, pipeline initialization, etc., the `__init__` method can be overridden.

Reviewer: Check the link

### `_init_pipeline()`

```{note}
Abstract method, subclasses must implement.
```

Initialize and return the pipeline required by the inferencer. The pipeline is for a single image, similar to the `train_pipeline` and `test_pipeline` defined in the OpenMMLab series algorithm library. Each `inputs` passed in by the user when calling the `__call__` interface will be processed by the pipeline to form batch data, which will then be passed to the `forward` method. This is an abstract method that must be implemented by the subclass.

### `_init_collate()`

Initializes and returns the `collate_fn` required by the inferencer, whose value is equivalent to the `collate_fn` of the Dataloader in the training process. `BaseInferencer` will default to getting the `collate_fn` from the configuration of `test_dataloader`, so it is generally not necessary to override the `_init_collate` function.

### `_init_visualizer()`

> Initializes and returns the `visualizer` required by the inferencer, which is equivalent to the `visualizer` used in the training process. By default, `BaseInferencer` obtains the `visualizer` from the configuration of the `visualizer`, so there is usually no need to rewrite the `_init_visualizer` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initializes and returns the `visualizer` required by the inferencer, which is equivalent to the `visualizer` used in the training process. By default, `BaseInferencer` obtains the `visualizer` from the configuration of the `visualizer`, so there is usually no need to overide the `_init_visualizer` function.
```

### `preprocess()`

> Input parameters: 

Reviewer: Replace Input parameters with Input arguements

- inputs：Input data, passed into `__call__`, usually a list of image paths or image data.
- batch_size：batch size, passed in by the user when calling `__call__`.

> - Other parameters: specified by the user and included in `preprocess_kwargs`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Other parameters: Passed in by the user and specified in `preprocess_kwargs`.
```

Output: 

> - Generator that yields one batch of data per iteration.。

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Generator that yields one batch of data per iteration.
```

The `preprocess` function is a generator function by default, which applies the `pipeline` and `collate_fn` to the input data, and yields the preprocessed batch data. In general, subclasses do not need to override this function.

### `forward()`

Input arguments:

- inputs：The batch data processed by `preprocess` function.

> - Other parameters: Specified by the user and indicated in `forward_kwargs`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Other parameters: Passed in by the user and specified in `forward_kwargs`.
```

> Output：

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Return:
```

- Prediction result, default type is `List[BaseDataElement]`.

Calls `model.test_step` to perform forward inference and returns the inference result. Subclasses typically do not need to override this method.

### `visualize()`

```{note}

> Abstract method that subclasses must implement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is an abstract method that must be implemented by the subclass.
```

```

Input arguments:

- inputs：The input data, which is the raw data without preprocessing.
- preds：Predicted results of the model.
- show：Whether to visualize.

> - Other parameters: Specified by the user in `visualize_kwargs`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Other parameters: Passed in by the user and specified in `visualize_kwargs`.
```

> Output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Return:
```

> - Other parameters: specified by the user in `visualize_kwargs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Other parameters: Specified by the user in `visualize_kwargs`.
```

> - The visualization result, usually of type `List[np.ndarray]`. Taking object detection as an example, each element in the list should be an image with detection boxes drawn, which can be visualized using `cv2.imshow`. The visualization process may vary for different tasks, and `visualize` should return results that are suitable for common visualization processes in that field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Visualize the results, which are usually of type `List[np.ndarray]`. Taking object detection as an example, each element in the list should be an image with detection boxes drawn, which can be visualized using `cv2.imshow`. The visualization process may vary for different tasks, and `visualize` should return results that are suitable for common visualization processes in that field.
```

### `postprocess()`

```{note}

> Abstract method that subclasses must implement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is an abstract method that must be implemented by the subclass.
```

```

Input arguments:

> - preds：The predicted results of the model, which is a `list` type. Each element in the list represents the prediction result of a piece of data. In the OpenMMLab algorithm library series, the type of each element in the prediction result is `BaseDataElement`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- preds：The predicted results of the model, which is a `list` type. Each element in the list represents the prediction result for a single data item. In the OpenMMLab series of algorithm libraries, the type of each element in the prediction result is `BaseDataElement`.
```

- visualization：Visualization results

> - return_datasample：Whether to return the datasample as is. When set to `False`, the returned result is converted to a `dict`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- return_datasample: Whether to maintain datasample for return. When set to `False`, the returned result is converted to a `dict`.
```

> - Other parameters: specified by the user in `postprocess_kwargs`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Other parameters: Passed in by the user and specified in `postprocess_kwargs`.
```

> Output：

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Return：
```

- The type of the returned value is a dictionary containing both the visualization and prediction results. OpenMMLab requires the returned dictionary to have two keys: `predictions` and `visualization`.

### `__call__()`

Input arguments:

- inputs：The input data, usually a list of image paths or image data. Each element in `inputs` can also be other types of data as long as it can be processed by the `pipeline` returned by [init_pipeline](#_init_pipeline). When there is only one inference data in `inputs`, it does not have to be a `list`, `__call__` will internally wrap it into a list for further processing.

> - return_datasample：Whether to return datasample as a `dict`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- return_datasample: Whether to convert datasample to dict for return.
```

- batch_size：Batch size for inference, which will be further passed to the `preprocess` function.

> - Extra arguments to be passed to `preprocess`, `forward`, `visualize`, and `postprocess` functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Other parameters: Additional parameters assigned to `preprocess`, `forward`, `visualize`, and `postprocess` methods.
```

> Output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Return:
```
